1.6 BOTNET PROTOCOL
	(the parts we care about)

Table of Contents

1. Vital notes
2. Connecting to an obot
3. Maintaining a connection
4. Channel commands

1. Vital notes

I use the term 'obot' to refer to a 1.6 bot that we are linking with.

Whenever I use the term 'base64' I am referring to eggdrop's own, nonstandard
base64. Take a look at botmsg.c for the original code.

Honestly, the only confusing part of the botnet protocol is the connection
process. The codepath in dcc.c is just terrible. The rest of the stuff you
can easily figure out for yourself by looking at botmsg.c and botcmd.c.

The other important note is obots are compiled with NO_OLD_BOTNET undefined,
in other words, they *do* recognize the old botnet protocol.  This means that
the long forms of commands (e.g. ping instead of pi) will work when you send
them. However, if you connect to the obot and send a version command indicating
that your bot's version is > NEAT_BOTNET (currently 1029900), the obot will
only SEND you the short version. You will never get a "join" command from a 1.6
bot, only a "j" command. Since 1.7's version is 1070000 or higher, this
document only examines the new botnet protocol. The syntax has changed! So in
the "j/join command" section, the "join" part is only there for human reference
not as part of the protocol. The actual syntax of the "join" is different from
the "j" command in this document.







2. Connecting to an obot.

2.1 Username/password

Upon connection, the obot will print out its banner and prompt us for a
username. We send it our bot's name. Now the obot realizes we are a bot, not
a user, and if we have a password set it prompts us with the passreq command
(an md5 hash of our password and some other stuff). We ignore it and send our
password in plain text.

If a password is not set, the obot doesn't prompt us for one, it lets us log
in immediately.

2.2 h/handshake command

If a password is not set, the obot will send us this handshake command. The
only argument is a randomly generated string that will serve as our password
in the future. So we save it in the obot's user record for next time we
connect.

2.3 *hello! command

Once we log in, the obot will send us "*hello!" to which we are supposed to
reply "version numericver handlen stringver <network>". However, since 1.7
does not have a fixed handlen, we do not send our version reply until we
receive the obot's version.

2.4 version command

So, right after the obot sends "*hello!", it sends the version command talked
about above. An example is:

	version 1061603 32 eggdrop v1.6.16+somepatch <my.network>

We parse it a little bit to extract the handlen, and then we reply
with our own version information:

	version 1070000 32 eggdrop v1.7 <alrighty.then>

2.5 tb/thisbot command

After we send our version reply, the obot should send us the thisbot command.
The only parameter is the obot's name. It is a security measure to ensure that
the bot we just connected to is the bot we really did want to connect to.
Example:

	tb obot

2.6 j/join command

The next thing the obot does is give us a list of all the users logged onto it.
It does this via the join command. Basically it sends us a join command for
each user, specifying the originating bot of the user and the channel he's on.
The only difference between this and a normal join is that the obot's name is
prefixed with "!". The format for such a message is:

	j !botname user chan# (icon)sock user@host

An example would be:

	j !obot stdarg A *I dragon@localhost

As you can see, (icon) doesn't really have parentheses around it. They are only
there to separate it from sock, since there isn't any whitespace in the actual
message. The icon given is the same as what appears on .who output, e.g.
* = owner, + \ master, etc.

Now is where we start to get into some really annoying stuff! In the 1.6 botnet
protocol, integers are encoded in a nonstandard base64 format. That is why the
"sock" parameter, which is an integer uniquely identifying the partyline
connection on the obot, is sent as "I" instead of "8" in the example. The sock
parameter is important since several other commands use it instead of the
username. The chan#, normally 0 for the global partyline, is sent as A.

2.7 i/idle command

One such command is the idle command. The format is:

	i botname sock idletime awaymsg

An example would be:

	i obot I BN

Once again, the sock and idletime parameters, normally integers, are encoded.
As you can see, the sock I in this command is the same as the sock I in the
last join command example. This is no coincidence. Since a user may be logged
on more than once, it is necessary to use a unique identifier (the sock) rather
than a username (you wouldn't know which one to update if he were logged on
twice). Note in the example, there is no away message.

2.8 el command

Once the data for all of the users has been transferred, we receive the el
command, which signifies the end of linking. Now we can pass around other
events, like channel chatter, joins, parts, etc, as they happen.







3. Maintaining a connection

This section is very simple. The only command you *need* to implement to
maintain a connection is...

3.1 pi/ping command

When you get "pi", you should quickly respond "po". That is all.








4. Channel commands

This section deals with the commands related to partyline channels.

4.1 j/join command

This command is largely the same as the join command received while you are
connecting. Format:

	j botname user chan# (icon)sock user@host

When you receive the join command, botname will be the obot's name. When you
send the join command, botname will be your bot's name. Chan# and sock are
in base64.

4.2 pt/part command

When a user leaves a channel, a part command is generated. Format:

	pt botname user sock reason

Botname is of course the originating bot. Sock will be encoded in base64. Reason
is optional.

4.3 c/chat command

When somebody talks on a partyline channel, eggdrop uses this command. Format:

	c user@botname chan# text

Pretty self explanatory. Chan# is base64. Example:

	c stdarg@dragonbot A asdf asdf asdf

The other use of the chat command is for a bot message. When the bot wants
to say something to the channel, it leaves off the user@ and does:

	c botname chan# text





That's all for now!
